Now that we know how we can create arrays,
I also want to emphasize what you can store in arrays.
You can store numbers as you see, you can store strings, you can store objects,
these are all things you did throughout the course.
It's really important to understand that arrays can be of the same type, like hobbies where we have cooking
and sports which are both strings but can also be of mixed types, like personal data where we might have
the age as the first element, then the name as a second argument and
then even an object with more details which might even be another array as a third element. So you
can have arrays which are uniform or which have different types of data in there.
You can also have nested arrays or multi-dimensional arrays as they're also called,
for example you could have some analytics data which is in the end an array of arrays where you have
1, 1.6 and then another array, -5.3 or 5.4, 2.1
and so on.
So where you have an array, where each element in the array is another array and of course you could
for example also loop over such an array, const data of analytics data.
This will go over the outer array,
so now data will be these elements of the array,
so the nested arrays. So you can have a loop in a loop and go through the data points here for example
of data,
so data is this data which is just one of the elements, which in turn is an array and then console log
data point here,
that should be data point because we'll always have a look at one element at a time.
So that's also something you can have, if I reload here,
we see the data point is being logged here. So multi-dimensional arrays are also a thing
and of course you could have even more dimensions, you could have an array in an array in an array.
You can also have a mixture of an array with arrays and then still have another element which is an
object or a string, so you can also have mixed data in multi-dimensional arrays.
So what I want to say here is you're really flexible there.
Of course if you would have an array with nested data and then you have some other element which is
just a number let's say, it's still not an iterable object,
well then code like this would break because there we loop over this array with this outer loop and we
have a look at each array element and then we loop over that array element again which works for iterables
but not for numbers.
So you have to be careful how you can use your array but in general you can store whatever you want
in there, nested arrays, nested arrays and nested arrays, mixed data, strings, numbers, whatever you need,
arrays are really flexible regarding the values you store in there. Also important to know about arrays
and something we of course had a look at already but it's something which sometimes gets messed up is
that arrays are index based,
so you can access data by index. If I would want to get my name from personal data which is that second
element, I would do so by accessing personal data one because it's index based and the index starts at
0,
so the first element in an array has an index of 0,
second element has an index of one, third element has an index of two and that's simply important to
keep in mind, it's a common mistake because the length of that array would be three,
the highest index value would be two.
That's something you learn earlier already and what we used already
but since it's easy to mess up, I just wanted to repeat it here.
Index based, index starts at zero,
the length of an array is max index plus 1 though.